---
title: 破晓传说
description:
published: true
date: "2022-07-09T23:15:14"
特殊标签标记: #无标签
editor: markdown
dateCreated: "2021-11-25T16:01:02"
---

## 流言

2021年8月，在 4channel.org 论坛出现了一个关于《破晓传说》在索尼游戏机平台被审查的帖子 ——《Good news for PC players: Tales of Arise is censored on PS4/PS5》:

> You'll probably start hearing about this in the coming weeks from the major publications (and I suspect many of them will try and justify it) but I felt like I should let you guys know about it ahead of time, so you can decide for yourselves if you want to give Bandai Namco your money for this game, especially for the Playstation ports.  
>
> So first off, Tales of Arise is being censored on PS4 and PS5 ONLY. The censorship will not be present on other platforms, at least as far as I'm aware. This applies to ALL versions of the game, JP, US and elsewhere.  
>
> Here's a list of things that I'm personally aware have been changed for the PS4/PS5 versions. There may be additional changes that I'm not aware of, but at the very least, all of the following has been censored: 
>
> 1. Multiple costumes (all female characters) have been made less risque.  
> 2. There is a hot springs scene which is completely removed from the game on Sony platforms. It is not plot significant, but it is still removed. The area still exists but one scene from there is gone.  
> 3. Associated costumes (bath towels) that are earned by seeing the hot springs scene in question are completely removed.  
> 4. The gender symbols (in the ingame language) on said hot spring's doors have been removed.  
> 5. There is an optional scene where the female characters make sexual remarks towards each other. This entire scene is removed.  
> 6. There is a scene where one of the male characters walks in on one of the female characters, and it is implied that he sees her naked, though nothing is shown in any version. In the Playstation versions however, the dialog is different and the sexual implications are removed.  
> 7. A weapon carried by one of the NPCs has had it's design changed. I'm not entirely sure what the reasoning is behind this one.  
> 8. There is a scene where an enemy punches one of your female characters. In the PS version, she dodges out of the way but still falls down.  
> 9. A dialog choice has been altered. There is a flamboyant character (I don't think it's ever specified that he's gay, but it's heavily implied) who in other versions, you have the option of questioning his flirting towards you. But in the PS versions, this dialog is changed to you just calling him annoying.  
>
> And that's all that I'm aware of. Make use of that information however you like.[^727]

[^727]: [Good news for PC players: Tales of Arise is censored on PS4/PS5 :: Tales of Arise General Discussions](https://web.archive.org/web/20210816035223/https://steamcommunity.com/app/740130/discussions/0/4897088319056772716)

这个帖子的内容之后均未发现符合事实，
